[IMP] accounting: update payment matching feature (#11607)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/payments.rst

When a new payment is registered via :menuselection:`Customers / Vendors --> Payments`, it is not
directly linked to an invoice or bill. Instead, the account receivable or the account payable is
matched with the **outstanding account** until it is manually matched with its related invoice or

> bill. Then, the payment is :doc:`reconciled <bank/reconciliation>` with the bank transactions.

Author: Yes, indeed, thank you for catching that nuance! ;)

.. _accounting/payments/payments-matching:

Payments matching
-----------------

.. note::
   During the :doc:`bank reconciliation <bank/reconciliation>` process, a remaining balance is
   identified if the total debits and credits do not match when records are compared with bank
   transactions. This balance must either be reconciled later or written off immediately.

.. _accounting/payments/matching-invoices-bills:

For a single invoice or bill
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A blue banner appears when validating a new invoice/bill and an **outstanding payment** exists for
this specific customer or vendor. To match it with the invoice or bill, click :guilabel:`Add`
under :guilabel:`Outstanding Credits` or :guilabel:`Outstanding Debits`.

.. image:: payments/add-option.png
   :alt: Shows the ADD option to reconcile an invoice or a bill with a payment.

The invoice or bill is then marked as :guilabel:`In payment` until the payment is :doc:`reconciled
<bank/reconciliation>` with its corresponding :doc:`bank transaction(s) <bank/transactions>`.

.. _accounting/payments/auto-reconcile-tool:

> Using the Auto-reconcile tool

Reviewer: Can we change this to "Matching payments" instead? I think it's important to explain the auto-reconciliation feature like you did here, but they can also be matched manually, which isn't covered at all. Matching payments is the larger topic here, and the auto-reconcile feature is a more specific subject within that.

Author: You're right, I forgot the more "general" way to do it 😅

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Payments matching` or :guilabel:`Auto-reconcile` tool allows reconciling journal
items with each other (i.e., payments with customer invoices or vendor bills) either individually or
in batches. To do so, follow these steps:

#. Access the :guilabel:`Accounting Dashboard`, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
   (:guilabel:`dropdown menu`) button from the :guilabel:`Customer Invoices` or :guilabel:`Vendor
   Bills` journals, and select :guilabel:`Payments Matching`. Or, go to :menuselection:`Accounting
   --> Accounting --> Reconcile`.

> #. In the :guilabel:`Journal Items to reconcile` list view, click :guilabel:`Auto-Reconcile` next to

Reviewer: Here, explain how to select individual items from the list view and use the "Reconcile" button. Then in a lower section you can keep this and the following steps to explain how to use the Auto-reconcile feature

To register payments on multiple invoices/bills, follow these steps:

#. Go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Invoices/Credit Notes` or
   :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Bills/Refunds`.
#. In the list view, select the relevant invoices/credit notes or bills/refunds.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`Action menu`) icon and select :guilabel:`Register Payment`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Register Payment` window, select the :guilabel:`Journal`, the
   :guilabel:`Payment Method`, and the :guilabel:`Payment Date`.
#. To combine all payments from the same contact into a single payment, enable the :guilabel:`Group
   Payments` option, or leave it unchecked to create separate payments.
#. Click :guilabel:`Create payment`.

The invoices or bills are then marked as :guilabel:`In payment` until the bank transactions are
:doc:`reconciled <bank/reconciliation>` with the payments.

.. _accounting/payments/batch-payments:

Registering a single payment for multiple customers or vendors (batch payments)
===============================================================================

Batch payments allow grouping payments from multiple contacts to ease

> :doc:`reconciliation <bank/reconciliation>`. They are also useful when depositing :doc:`checks

Reviewer: Just below this, can we change "SEPA payments" to be more localization neutral? "for generating bank payment files such as SEPA or NACHA" would name the two biggest ones and imply that there are others :)

<bank/reconciliation>` with its corresponding :doc:`bank transaction(s) <bank/transactions>`.

.. _accounting/payments/auto-reconcile-tool:

Matching payments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Payments matching` or :guilabel:`Auto-reconcile` tool allows reconciling journal
items with each other (i.e., payments with customer invoices or vendor bills) either individually or
in batches. Access the :guilabel:`Accounting Dashboard`, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
(:guilabel:`dropdown menu`) button from the :guilabel:`Customer Invoices` or :guilabel:`Vendor
Bills` journals, and select :guilabel:`Payments Matching`. Or, go to :menuselection:`Accounting
--> Accounting --> Reconcile`.

To manually :guilabel:`Reconcile` journal items, select the individual items from the list view and
click :guilabel:`Reconcile`.

Auto-Reconcile Feature
**********************

To use the :guilabel:`Auto-Reconcile` feature, follow these steps:

#. In the :guilabel:`Journal Items to reconcile` list view, click :guilabel:`Auto-Reconcile` next to
   the receivable or payable account (or a specific contact's journal item in that account).

> #. In the :guilabel:`Find Entries to Reconcile Automatically` window, set the :guilabel:`Reconcile`

Reviewer: Be aware that the name of this window changes in 18 :)

Author: I will 👍

#. In the list view, select the relevant invoices/credit notes or bills/refunds.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-cog` (:guilabel:`Action menu`) icon and select :guilabel:`Register Payment`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Register Payment` window, select the :guilabel:`Journal`, the
   :guilabel:`Payment Method`, and the :guilabel:`Payment Date`.
#. To combine all payments from the same contact into a single payment, enable the :guilabel:`Group
   Payments` option, or leave it unchecked to create separate payments.
#. Click :guilabel:`Create payment`.

The invoices or bills are then marked as :guilabel:`In payment` until the bank transactions are
:doc:`reconciled <bank/reconciliation>` with the payments.

.. _accounting/payments/batch-payments:

Registering a single payment for multiple customers or vendors (batch payments)
===============================================================================

Batch payments allow grouping payments from multiple contacts to ease
:doc:`reconciliation <bank/reconciliation>`. They are also useful when depositing :doc:`checks
<payments/checks>` to the bank or for generating bank payment files such as :doc:`SEPA

> <payments/pay_sepa>` or NACHA. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Customers --> Batch

Reviewer: Let's link to the NACHA section in the US localization:
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/united_states.html#send-payments-nacha-files

Author: I knew there should be a ref somewhere I could use, but I didn't think about loc pages 😛 Thanks!

Customers --> Batch Payments` or :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Batch Payments`. In the
list view of payments, to group several payments in a batch, select them and click

> :menuselection:`Action --> Create Batch Payment`.

Author: You're right, thanks! I updated a bit because the information needed some corrections too :)

matched with the **outstanding account** until it is manually matched with its related invoice or
bill.

.. _accounting/payments/payments-matching:

Payments matching
-----------------

.. _accounting/payments/matching-invoices-bills:

For a single invoice or bill
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A blue banner appears when validating a new invoice/bill and an **outstanding payment** exists for

> this specific customer or vendor. To match it with the invoice or bill, click :guilabel:`ADD`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this specific customer or vendor. To match it with the invoice or bill, click :guilabel:`Add`
```

Author: @auva-odoo Ooopsie! 😳☺️

<bank/reconciliation>` with its corresponding :doc:`bank transactions <bank/transactions>`.

.. _accounting/payments/auto-reconcile-tool:

Using the Auto-reconcile tool
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Payments matching` or :guilabel:`Auto-reconcile` tool displays all unreconciled
customer invoices and vendor bills, allowing payments to be matched with invoices or bills
individually or all at once in a single centralized location. To do so, follow these steps:

#. Go to the :guilabel:`Accounting Dashboard`, click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v`
   (:guilabel:`dropdown menu`) button from the :guilabel:`Customer Invoices` or :guilabel:`Vendor
   Bills` journals, and select :guilabel:`Payments Matching`, or go to :menuselection:`Accounting
   --> Accounting --> Reconcile`.
#. Search for the contact.
#. In the :guilabel:`Journal Items to reconcile` list, click :guilabel:`Auto-Reconcile` next to the
   receivable or payable account.
#. In the :guilabel:`Find Entries to Reconcile Automatically` window, Odoo has automatically
   prefilled the :guilabel:`From`, :guilabel:`To`, :guilabel:`Reconcile`, :guilabel:`Accounts`,
   :guilabel:`Partners` fields.
#. Click :guilabel:`Launch`.

> Invoices and bills are automatically matched to their corresponding payments and are now marked as
> :guilabel:`In payment` until it is :doc:`reconciled <bank/reconciliation>` with their corresponding
> :doc:`bank transactions <bank/transactions>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Invoices and bills are automatically matched to their corresponding payments and are then marked as
:guilabel:`In payment` until they are :doc:`reconciled <bank/reconciliation>` with their corresponding
:doc:`bank transactions <bank/transactions>`.
```

   :guilabel:`Payment Method`, and the :guilabel:`Payment Date`.
#. Enable the :guilabel:`Group Payments` option and click :guilabel:`Create payment`.

> The invoices or bills are now marked as :guilabel:`In payment` until they are :doc:`reconciled
> <bank/reconciliation>` with the corresponding :doc:`bank transactions <bank/transactions>`. The
> credit notes or refunds are marked as :guilabel:`Paid`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The invoices or bills are then marked as :guilabel:`In payment` until they are :doc:`reconciled
<bank/reconciliation>` with the corresponding :doc:`bank transactions <bank/transactions>`. The
credit notes or refunds are marked as :guilabel:`Paid`.
```

===========================================

Once a payment has been registered, the status of the invoice or bill is :guilabel:`In payment`. The

> next step is :doc:`reconciling <bank/reconciliation>` it with the related :doc:`bank transactions
> <bank/transactions>` line to finalize the payment workflow and mark the invoice or bill as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
next step is :doc:`reconciling <bank/reconciliation>` it with the related :doc:`bank transaction
<bank/transactions>` line to finalize the payment workflow and mark the invoice or bill as
```
